---
title: Homelab series - Bootstrap
date: 2024-09-30 02:11 # HH:MM format
categories: howto homelab
tags: ansible docker portainer # always lowercase
---

# Homelab Series - Bootstrap

### Objectives for this Homelab Series:
- Lay out an easy to follow guide to setup a homelab, with repeatable and scripted actions where possible. The [homelab repo](https://github.com/Sarlaac/homelab) on github will contain all the good bits.

### Prerequisites
- You have a server, virtual machine, LXC container, or the like, with SSH access.
- The system should be running Debian, similar OS may work with small changes.

### Action Plan
- Setup Ansible either directly on the server, or on your desktop using the [bootstrap script](https://raw.githubusercontent.com/Sarlaac/homelab/refs/heads/main/bootstrap.sh).
  - You need to be running a Linux desktop and have SSH keys copied to the server if putting Ansible on the desktop.
  - Otherwise you can run the bootstrap script on the server itself.
- From the same directory as the bootstrap script was ran, activate the ansible environment
  - ```
    source env/bin/activate
    ```
- Edit the ```ansible/hosts``` file to add the server IP(s), see example proxmox, or use desktops group for local.
- Run the Debian playbook for the base configuration changes
  - note: limit in this case will run it on your local host.
  - ```
    cd homelab
    ansible-playbook run_debian_template.yml --limit=desktops
    ```
- Next lets install docker and portainer on the homelab server.
  - In this case we just install it locally on one machine, but if you put a list or range of IPs in hosts earlier, all of them will be setup as part of your homelab.
  - ```
    ansible-playbook run_docker.yml --limit=desktops
    ```
- What to read next? How about this article to get started filling docker up with useful containers?
  - [Portainer Deployments](https://docs.sarlaac.ca/posts/portainer-deployment/)
